[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So, I'm Mike and
I'm gonna teach you all about Ember today.
A little about me, so
you know my perspective.
I'm an Ember.js, Ember-cli,
and Ember-data contributor.
I have, in varying degrees, touched many
of the things in the Ember ecosystem.
Right now, I'm the CTO at a company
called Levanto Financial.
And until about a month ago
when I moved to Levanto,
I was the UI Architect for
Yahoo's Ads & Data division.
And I don't know if you guys keep
up with this kind of thing, but
Yahoo is not using YUI anymore.
Ember is a big part of what has displaced
YUI as the go-to framework there.
And hopefully I had a big part in
the adoption of Ember at Yahoo.
I also organize a meetup called
Modern Web UI, the aim of which
is to foster cross-pollination between
all of the framework communities so
we don't end up in our own little silos,
telling each other the same ideas.
And I do a lot of open source work
as well, especially in the Ember and
JavaScript ecosystems.
So different kinds of developers have
the thing they love about programming.
Some people love efficiency and
making an algorithm 10% faster,
or handling all of the edge and
corner cases.
For me, it's productivity and
composability.
I think one interesting thing about
programming is that what you did for
your last project,
you can take with you almost for free, and
use that as a building block for
what comes next.
If you're a construction worker,
you can't do that.
This is something where you can
keep building and building, and
other people's work helps
you get started faster.
And so I like to kind of run with that.
And my background, my education is
actually not in computer science.
I consider myself a product guy
who has been coding for 15 years.
So I love getting things out
there quickly, getting feedback.
And Ember is very well-suited for
that kind of thing, for
getting off the ground as quickly
as possible, building things in and
sort of to make that experience
more robust over time.
And I hope by the end of this
course you guys will see that
Ember is particularly good at that.
Another thing you should know is that I
am very active in writing Ember addons,
which are the plugin architecture for
Ember.
This is an easy way to
bring something like
Google's material design
into your app in 60 seconds.
And I'm not sure if I
have the most addons or
the best addons, but
I know I have a lot of addons.
And whenever I build a product or
take on a project,
I'm likely to spit out one or
two of these things along the way
in an effort to kind of
keep the ecosystem going.
So in terms of what we're gonna
cover through this course,
it's a little different that what you
read online, and I think it's better.
The focus here is gonna be on making sure
you guys understand the framework and
some of the core libraries that you really
would have a lot of trouble
building a complex app without.
I want you to understand those very,
very well, rather than touch on,
at a very superficial level,
a bunch of other things.
So first, we're going to talk a little
bit about Ember's philosophy and
point of view.
So how is it different from Angular?
Why do we need another web framework?
Good questions, and
I hope I have some answers for you.
I wanna set some goals so
that we know what we're aiming to do,
what I'm aiming to have you
guys able to walk away with.
We'll discuss the structure of
an app in terms of the source code,
where do you look for what.
And then get into templating and
the router, and then we'll start coding.
I hope we can get coding
in a little over an hour,
but definitely before
our first break here.
And we'll keep referring to this here.
But just to give you an idea of what's
coming, we're gonna talk about routing,
which is sort of the mapping of URL
driving state throughout your application.
We'll talk about where to
store state on your app,
where it's okay to store state and
where you should avoid storing state.
We'll deal with talking to APIs, today
we're going to talk to the Github API.
We're going to be listing out
Github organizations, and
repositories, and
issues tracked in those repositories,
to give you an idea of,
if you were working at GitHub or
had an API like that, how do you build
this hierarchy of data on the client side?
And how do you display that reasonably?
The highlight of the afternoon
will probably be components,
which are a lot of fun.
That's your ability to
define an expressive way of
composing user interfaces,
using your own building blocks.
So we're gonna build a bunch
of different components.
We're gonna talk about
computer properties, and
that should take us to the end of the day.